[Streams] Update data quality calculations (#4566)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/observability/streams/management/data-quality.md

  stack: preview =9.1, ga 9.2+
---

# Manage data quality [streams-data-quality]

From the **Streams** page, use the **Data quality** menu to filter your streams by data quality status, then select a stream to examine it more closely. After selecting a stream, use the **Data quality** tab to find failed and degraded documents in your stream.

Use the following components to monitor the health of your data and identify and fix issues:

> * **Degraded documents:** Documents from the last backing index of the stream with the `ignored` property, usually because of malformed fields or exceeding the limit of total fields when `ignore_above` is set to `false`. This component shows:

Author: ```suggestion
* **Degraded documents:** Documents from the last backing index of the stream with the `ignored` property, usually because of malformed fields or fields with values that exceed the configured `ignore_above` limit. This component shows:
```

> * **Degraded documents:** Documents from the last backing index of the stream with the `ignored` property, usually because of malformed fields or exceeding the limit of total fields when `ignore_above` is set to `false`. This component shows:

Author: Thanks for the review @ElenaStoeva! Would you mind taking another look to make sure I got that update correct?

>   * Total number of degraded documents.

Reviewer: Don't think these list items need periods since they're not complete sentences.

```suggestion
  * Total number of degraded documents
```

Author: I normally follow the Microsoft guideline where if the introductory sentence is a fragment, and the list items complete the sentence, then use punctuation, but I'm not sure if we have guidance in that particular instance in our style guide.

Reviewer 2: Our official guidance is:

> Use parallel construction for bulleted lists (i.e., all sentence fragments or all complete sentences, rather than a mix of the two).

> A period should be added to the end of each bullet point when the bullet points contain complete sentences and/or two or more sentences. When using short fragments, bullets should not include punctuation.

https://brand.elastic.co/302f66895/p/194a3b-writing-style-guide/t/446788

Reviewer 2: But that's the brand guide and I have my own brand(on) guide that I follow

Author: It gets a little hazy when there's a item that has a complete sentence (refer to...) but I don't want to rewrite all of these bullets as complete sentences. I have learned in the past to use periods on all in that situation, but it's all a style guide thang, so who knows.

  * Percentage of degraded documents relative to the total document count from the stream's last backing index.
  * The data quality status (**Good**, **Degraded**, **Poor**).
* **Failed documents:** Documents that were rejected during ingestion because of mapping conflicts or pipeline failures. This component shows:
  * Total number of failed documents that correspond with this stream from within the specified time range in the date picker. Refer to [Failure store](#streams-data-quality-failure) for more information.
  * Percentage of failed documents relative to the total document count from the stream's last backing index.

>   * The data quality status (**Good**, **Degraded**, **Poor**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The data quality status (**Good**, **Degraded**, **Poor**)
```

* **Quality score:** Streams calculates the overall quality score (**Good**, **Degraded**, **Poor**) based on the percentage of degraded and failed documents. Refer to [Data quality calculation](#streams-data-quality-calculation) for more information.
* **Trends over time:** A time-series chart so you can track how degraded and failed documents are accumulating over time. Use the date picker to focus on a specific range and understand when problems are spiking.

> * **Issues:** {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.2`Find issues with specific fields, how often they've occurred, and when they've occurred.

Reviewer: I think current guidance is to put the applies to tag at the front of the list item: https://www.elastic.co/docs/contribute-docs/how-to/cumulative-docs/badge-placement#ordered-and-unordered-lists

```suggestion
* {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.2` **Issues:** Find issues with specific fields, how often they've occurred, and when they've occurred.
```

## Data quality calculation [streams-data-quality-calculation]

Streams calculates data quality as follows:

* **Good:** Both the **Degraded documents** percentage and the **Failed documents** percentage are 0.
* **Degraded:** Either the **Degraded documents** percentage or the **Failed documents** percentage are greater than 0 and less than or equal to 3.
* **Poor:** Either the **Degraded documents** percentage or the **Failed documents** percentage are greater than 3.

> ## Failure store [streams-data-quality-failure]

Reviewer: Is this section needed if there's already a whole page dedicated to explaining a failure store?

A [failure store](../../../../manage-data/data-store/data-streams/failure-store.md) is a secondary set of indices inside a data stream, dedicated to storing failed documents. Instead of losing documents that are rejected during ingestion, a failure store retains them in a `::failures` index, so you can review failed documents to understand what went wrong and how to fix it.

For example, for a stream called `my-stream`, Streams fetches all documents from the `my-stream::failures` index from within the specified time range in the date picker.

> ### Required permissions

Author: Maybe it's worth making a snippet, I would like to have everything a user needs to user Streams without sending them to another page if possible, so I put a brief description, but maybe it's not necessary.

> ### Required permissions

Reviewer 2: ++ to the snippet idea. You could snippetize the intro too?
